so you want to break into Consulting but
you don't know where to start with the
case interview or you have an interview
coming up and you want to be able to
prep in a short period of time if that's
the case then you came to the right spot
welcome to Zia chairs if you're new to
this channel I'm a Harvard Business
School admit and an EXC consultant and
in this video I want to distill to you
the simplest Frameworks that you can use
in your Consulting interview that can
help you stand out and prep in such a
short period of time while it might take
some time to perfect the consultant case
interview my promise is that by the end
of this video you will be better at case
interviewing than when you started okay
so let's talk about the agenda we're
going to cover five core types of
Consulting case interviews number one is
profitability number two is Market entry
number three is Market sizing number
four mergers and acquisition and then
number five other types of cases for
each of these I want to cover a sample
question that they might ask the
framework that you should use during the
Consulting case interview and then a
quick example or analysis to run with
that framework I love nerding out on
Frameworks so I hope you're are excited
so let's get started starting off with
the profitability cases here usually
they tell you that there's a problem
with profit and usually it is a company
that has been performing very well in
the past and right now in the past
couple years they're not performing as
well from a profit standpoint so they
want your help in figuring out what's
going on so in this case you typically
want to break it from a framework
standpoint into revenues and and then
costs under Revenue you can break it
down even further into the price per
unit times the number of units sold on
the cost side you can break it into
fixed costs and then variable costs
ultimately what you want to ask is you
want to ask for data points on how
things used to be and then how things
are now currently so that you can notice
and see where there is the biggest
amount of change so for example let's
say we have a bubble gum company that
sells bubble gum and let say that
they've been experiencing a decline in
profitability over the past year so then
when you break it into Revenue you
notice that their revenue is $120
million and then their costs are $80
million last year though their revenue
was $120 million but their cost was only
$60 million so now by breaking it up you
notice that it's not a revenue problem
and instead it's a cost problem so then
when I look at the cost and I break it
down into fixed costs and variable costs
I notice that the fixed cost are stable
so let's call it that it was $40 million
in fixed costs but then their variable
cost is what jumped up from $20 million
to $40 million year-over-year so in
digging further we realize that the
reason why the variable cost went up
considerably is because the supplier has
changed year-over-year and now they're
working with a different supplier of
bubble gum so now their cost of the
material or the cost of the bubble gum
is much more expensive in order for them
to go back into profitability they
should find a way to bring down their
variable cost as low as it was either by
changing suppliers or maybe by
renegotiating the terms of the contract
again this is very much a hypothetical
example and very quickly diving into it
but as you can see I'm going through the
tree one by one looking at Revenue then
looking at costs and then breaking it
down even further trying to identify
where the problem is now let's talk
about Market entry the name and type of
case says it all here you typically have
a company that is is trying to expand
and enter a new market so for example I
love to give the PepsiCo example let's
say that PepsiCo only operates in the
United States and they want to open up a
new branch in Japan they've never sold
Pepsi in Japan and they want to know
whether it's a good idea in this case
you want to break it into four parts
first you want to look at the market
size second you want to look at the
market growth third you want to look at
the potential share that you're able to
get and then fourth you want to look at
the investment associated with that so
let's look at an example and as a
disclaimer all the numbers that I'm
going to share are hypothetical examples
they're absolutely wrong they're just to
demonstrate um an example to you all so
for Market size let's say that the total
Market size of the you know beverage um
Market is roughly $30
billion and the growth of the market is
10% so every single year the market is
going to grow by 10% just between the
these two pieces of information it seems
to me that the market seems to be
attractive it's a big enough market and
it's a market that's growing
year-over-year in Japan now let's look
at the potential share when you think
about the potential share you want to
understand what percentage of that
market do you think you'll be able to
get for sake of Simplicity let's say
that based off of the competition and
some analysis that you've done you think
that you can get close to 10% market
share in year 1 so in total you might be
expecting $3 billion in Revenue because
the total Market size is 30 billion you
are going to get 10% share of that $30
billion market so you can expect 3
billion doll in Revenue now here when
you think about it from a cost
standpoint let's say it would cost us
a100 billion to enter the Japanese
market for whatever reason building the
new Factory hiring people licenses in
this specific case it doesn't seem to be
worth it to enter the Japanese Market
because it would take you almost 30
years 33 years to be exact in order for
you to break even from this investment
having said that let's say it only costs
I don't know1 billion to break into the
market then for me I think that that
could be quite the attractive um
analysis to go into um the Japanese
Market because you could break even in 3
years and then anything after 3 years
would just be pure profit so again just
to summarize this example notice how I
went through each of my buckets of the
framework got some data about it and
then based off of the data that I
received I'm making conclusions as to
whether it's a good idea to enter the
market or not in this case the market
size is great the market growth is great
we can get enough potential share but
then it really came down to the
investment if the investment is too
large then it may not be worth it to
enter if the investment was on the
smaller side it might be able to enter
in this case when you think about the
market entry cases they might actually
give you different parts that you have
to evaluate maybe the issue is not
necessarily in the investment it might
be in your potential share so again just
covering all of your grounds in each of
those I think you'll be in a good
position to answer the market entry
[Music]
[Applause]
questions now on to my personal favorite
which is Market sizing Market sizing is
these cool questions that they ask you
on like how many golf balls could you
fit in the Empire State Building or how
many students are there in the United
States who are pursuing online degrees
there are all sorts of questions about
Market sizing and while they can be very
daunting in the beginning if you can
simplify it and distill it into either a
top- down approach or a Bottoms Up
approach you'll be able to simplify the
question and get to a close ballpark so
what do I mean by top- down approach or
Bottoms Up approach in the top- down
approach you're starting with a large
market and then you're distilling
distilling distilling and funnel it down
down until you get to the market that
you're interested in so let's look at an
example of the top down approach in this
case I want to start all the way from
the top and as I said funnel down to the
market so let's say I want to talk about
the total number of students who are
pursuing an online degree in the United
States maybe I can start with a top
bucket which is the total population of
the United States for sake of Simplicity
let's say it's 300 million now of the
300 million let's say that 20% of people
are within the ages of 18 to 24 so now
I'm down to my second layer which is
approximately 20% of the population or 6
million people now let's say of the 6
million people I have approximately half
of them pursuing college degrees so 3
million people and then of the 3 million
people another half of them are pursuing
their degrees online so now I'm down to
1.5 million now notice how I started
from a top- down large number like the
population and then I made General
assumptions that may or may not be
correct but they're in the rough
Ballpark and based off of those
assumptions in that piece of logic I
came down to approximately 1.5 million
again these are all hypothetical numbers
and you know you'd have to do uh more
robust assumptions in order to get to
the right number but this is again just
for demonstration purposes now the
bottoms up approach would be a little
bit different where you can look at you
know a a certain statistic within your
area or region and then be able to
extrapolate it to a much larger um
population so let's talk about about
pharmacies for example how many
pharmacies are there in the United
States maybe you live in a place like
myself um in Boston and in your area of
say 100,000 people there is 100
pharmacies so then you can say okay for
every 100,000 um people there's
typically 100 pharmacies so for a
population of a thousand you get one
Pharmacy then you can use this ratio
then to extrapolate to another city so
let's say they ask you how many
pharmacies are there in New York New
York and New York has 8 million people
now you know that for every thousand
people there is one Pharmacy so you're
going to take your 8 million and divide
it by 1,000 to get the number of
pharmacies in New York so that will get
you 8,000 pharmacies again in this case
you are starting from a smaller
population in your region in your area
and then you're trying to extrapolate it
to a much larger population I will say
Market sizing is the one that has the
most amount of nuance there is a lot of
different types of cases that you can do
and frankly it's probably one of the
harder ones to prep for this is one
where I'd say practice is probably your
best bet um there's not a clear direct
framework but if you try to apply the
top down or Bottoms Up approach in any
of these you could get to the close
ballpark but truly I think practice is
the best for um Market sizing
specifically all right mergers and
Acquisitions or m&a this is basically
when one company is trying to decide
whether or not they should acquire
another company so let's say that you
have PepsiCo again and they are trying
to decide whether they should buy this
bottled water company here you want to
look at three specific things first you
want to look at the value of the
Standalone company that you're trying to
acquire so when you acquire a company
you want to know whether this company
that you're acquiring is good on its own
as a standalone solo business are their
revenues good are they growing are they
profitable so all that information
should be um analyzed to understand
whether this is a good solo company from
there you want to look into it into the
second bucket which is synergies
synergies can come in two forms either
cost synergies or revenue synergies and
what we mean here by synergies is the
total additional value that you can get
is a combined company for example from a
cost Synergy standpoint you can reduce
the number of headcount that you have in
the company because now you are one
merged company for example let's say
that the bottled water company had a
director of marketing and PepsiCo has
the director of marketing now you only
really need one person to run the
marketing department for both companies
so you can save the cost um from one of
the directors of marketing but you can
also have synergies on the revenue side
so let's say that now you can package
some of your sales from the bottled
water plus the PepsiCo into some large
deal to one of your big retailers and
you can you know upch charge and upsell
on the price that's something that you
would not have been able to do so this
could be be additional synergistic um
Revenue that you're getting um as like
an additional benefit of acquiring the
company so now once you look at
synergies you go into the third piece
and that is qualitative and quantitative
considerations so on the quantitative
side you want to look at the financials
like how much does it cost to acquire
the company do we have the money to do
so are we going to use debt are we going
to use equity what is kind of the
financial instruments that are going to
go into this deal and then number two
you want to also look at the Quality
considerations so for example if you're
a company like Pepsi and you want to go
acquire a bottled water um company what
does that mean for your brand are you
going to be able to do marketing the
same way are you going to be targeting
the same people these are all other
qualitative considerations that may not
necessarily Showcase in the numbers but
are things that you just need to
generally be aware of uh whenever you're
doing a form of acquisition and again in
your interview you don't have to be
perfect and analyze every single piece
usually you're going to focus on one of
these buckets and they're going to dive
deep into it so as long as you cover all
of the grounds you're going to hit the
point that they want to talk about and
from there your conversation with your
interviewer will take you and guide you
to the right place now these four types
of interviews that we've spoken about
would cover probably 80 to 90% of all
types of interviews that you might get
at McKenzie BCG Bane and even some of
the other consulting firms but what if
you don't get one of these four types of
questions what if you get get something
completely different like a I don't know
a nonprofit case or you know an
education specific case and something
that you know maybe does not fit nicely
into one of these four what do you do
here I like to use what is called the
principal component analysis let's take
a step back ultimately what a case
interview is all about it is giving you
a problem that you need to solve notice
the emphasis on problem there is a
problem that you need to uncover 70% of
the case is you just figuring out what
the problem is and then 30% of it is
offering Solutions so if you're able to
just identify where the problem is
you're already more than half the way
there and the way that you do that is
through principal component analysis
which essentially is trying to divide
all of the situation that you're in into
call it a list of three to four buckets
that could cause problems in the
situation that you're in so think of it
as let's say I have a University and the
university is struggling with their
brand this is not a profitability issue
it's not Market entry it's not really an
acquisition and there's no Market sizing
so it's a different type of case it's a
brand issue so I need to figure out what
is the problem with their brand but what
is a university let me try to break the
university into its principal component
parts a university ultimately has
professors it has programs it has has
students and it has facilities and it
has a curriculum those are kind of the
five parts so that would be my framework
I would put those five things as the
five parts of my framework and I would
try to analyze each one of these to see
where the problem is is the problem in
the students are the students not
graduating are the students struggling
with their courses and that's affecting
the brand are the students not excited
about um attending the university maybe
not maybe the issue is not in the
students and instead it's the faculty
maybe we are having issues with hiring
we're not getting the highest quality
faculty we're not getting faculty that's
very famous that has done world-renowned
research so maybe it's now on to moving
on to number three maybe the issue could
be in the facilities maybe the issue
could be in the curriculum we're not
teaching the right material we're not
teaching upto-date curriculum notice how
I basically turned this vague large
problem into something that can be
broken down into just five simple parts
and this is the beauty of consultant
case interviewing if you don't know what
to do even if you get a profitability
case or a general type of case all you
want to do is take a step back try to
identify three to five buckets or
categories where there's an issue and
then go through each of them one by one
if you're able to do that trust me you
will be better than 90% of people who
are case interviewing and with just
additional practice additional ability
to analyze problems you will be almost
100% of the way there I hope this was
helpful if you still have any questions
please feel free to reach out to me
directly I would love to connect and
help you during your Consulting
interviews now with that this was an
ultimately simplified version of it I
would highly recommend that you go in
and practice practice practice the case
interviews because there's no better way
to get better at casing than actually
doing the practice instead of just
studying the Frameworks but again I hope
that this was helpful and I hope to talk
to you all soon I'll catch you in the
next one